# ERROR 0x80000001

## Error

The kernel was not able to allocate a new PID because the PID table was full.


## Technical

The PID table has `MAX_NUM_PID` entries in it.  This value is determined at compile time and is a `#define` constant in `process.h`.  This value is set at the time of this documentation to 32768, resulting in PIDs from 0 to 32767.

If you are getting this error, generally one of the following is the cause:

1. You already have `MAX_NUM_PID` processes running and you are trying to start a new one.
1. You have one or more processes that are ending while attempting to start a new process and the Butler process has not been able to clean up the ending processes.  These ending processes might be in `PROC_END` or `PROC_ZOMB` status.

Application threads are not considered in this `MAX_NUM_PID` limit.

Upon getting this error the system would have halted, writing this error code to the debugging serial port with a short description.  Included in this message would be the current value of `MAX_NUM_PID`, indicating the number of processes in the tables (including the ones that might need to be reaped by the Butler).


## Resolution

If you have more than `MAX_NUM_PID` processes running and need more, change the `MAX_NUM_PID` value and rebuild the system.

If you have less than `MAX_NUM_PID` processes running and feel that the ending processes are not being cleaned up, then please e-mail Adam at hobbyos@eryjus.com with the details.  The fix in this case will be to have the `ProcessNewPID()` function check the reaper queue and if it is not empty wait for the Butler process to complete its work and then try again.

If you feel that this error does not accurately represent your situation, please contact Adam at hobbyos@eryjus.com with the specifics of your situation and why this error is not correct.
